---
title: 'Focus'
categories: [mindfulness, technology, design]
tags: [technical difficulties, dawn patrol, generational, podcasting]
banner: td-tall-banner.jpg
caption: Such a pretty shipwreck.
link: http://technicaldifficulties.us/articles/heading-back-to-sea
---

It's the hardest thing in the world, at least for me.

I'm a pleaser and a yes-man. I want to make people like me. Not just make people happy, mind you. I want them to *like* me. 

Historically, that need to make people happy has made it difficult for me to say no. I'm a chronic over-committer. I'm addicted to yes, and &ndash; like most addicts &ndash; eventually that addiction gets me into trouble.

<p class="has-pullquote" data-pullquote="I'm addicted to yes." markdown="1">Whenever I think about focus I'm reminded of the following excerpt from Vanity Fair's excellent [interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2oksetv3i90) with Jony Ive.</p>

> Steve [Jobs] was the most remarkably focused person I've ever met in my life... You can achieve so much when you truly focus. One of the things that Steve would say (because I think he was concerned that I wasn't) [was], "How many things have you said no to?" 

> And I would have these sacrificial things... but he knew that I wasn't vaguely interested in doing those things anyway, so there was no real sacrifice. What focus means is saying no to something that *with every bone in your body* you think is a *phenomenal* idea... but you say no because you're focused on something else.

For the past couple of years [Technical Difficulties](http://technicaldifficulties.us) and its predecessor Generational have been that phenomenal idea, and now I've got to let them go so I can focus on some other things in my life. It's extremely hard, and it's unquestionably necessary.

For the last year it's been a challenge to find something to say that's truly worth saying. It's affected me here, and it's affected me on the air. 

I'm still looking, but I'm as sure as ever in the rightness of the search. 